[MUSIC] One of the more interesting
aspects of the futures market is how exchanges create
a commoditized contract. Take wood for example, you might go to
a hardware store to buy wood for shelving, have a look at what they have in stock and
find their supply, fall short of the needs of your project. In the commodity markets, the exchange
standardizes the requirements for product. For example, lumber is of a specific
quality type in length and oil has to be of a certain
blend quality and grade. The advantage is that when investors are
trading contracts with the same underlying qualities and characteristics, it doesn't
matter who the buyer or seller is, since everyone is trading
the same product. The exchange also defines when contracts
start trading, what hours they can be traded, and importantly,
when the life of the contract expires, and what happens where and when,
in the settlement and delivery chain. Buyers and sellers generally know that the contract
they're trading has a specific lifecycle. And in most cases the contract
is not held until expiration. Rather, producers and end users are the ones who tend to
take delivery and deliver products. Everyone else simply migrates to
the next actively traded contract month. By creating the product and the venue,
the exchange can provide a marketplace for commodities and products that
few investors actually ever see. Let's take a look at an example of what a
standardized futures contract looks like. Here's an example of a NYMEX
traded crude oil contract, that is designed to cover 1000 barrels or 42,000 gallons of what refiners
greatest delight, sweet crude oil. Trading months, delivery dates and locations are detailed in
the contract specifications. And investors are also made
aware of delivery windows, settlement dates and
other crucial pieces of information, including when they could be physically
delivered if still holding the contract. Remember the futures exchange facilitates
trading the highly detailed and commoditized product and as a central
counterpart to transactions removes uncertainty on the delivery process, as well as provides a guaranty
of settlement to all traders who in turn are required to post margin,
which is the subject of our next video. Come back and join us. [MUSIC]