For those of you
following along in TWS, this video aims to show you how to add common contracts
to the display. We will explain contract codes and months to help you
quickly build them. We'll demonstrate how to add one, or a strip of futures
contracts to your display. For spread traders, and
for those wanting to roll a contract from one
exploration to the next, we'll show you how to create a spread between two contract. In TWS, future symbols are specific to the exchange
listed contract, month, and year of the
product you are looking at. Yet, there are several ways to arrive at displaying
the information. If you know the symbol of the contract you want
to add to the display, type it into a row
on your monitor. In this case, I'll
use GC for gold. By entering GC, the contract
selection box displays. Locate the exchange in
which this contract trades, select "Futures", and
pick the relevant month. If the month you want
is not displayed, click the "More" button to
find the relevant contract. You will notice that there
are a few nearby contracts listed along with the
so-called continuous contract. The continuous contract refers to the contract where most
investors are positioned, and where open interest
is concentrated. TWS will update as positions are rolled
into the next expiry. To quickly add a
specific exploration for a contract in to TWs, you will need the product code, and the symbol used
to denote the month, along with the final digits of the year in which the
contract expires. For example, if I specifically
wanted to display the December 2021 contract, we know that GC is the
TWS symbol for gold, and knowing that Z
represents December, we'd enter GC Z 1, where one represents 2021. Should you want the
December 2022 contract, you'd enter GC Z 2. Here is a list of the
futures month codes. To display multiple contract
months at the same time, start with the TWS symbol, locate the exchange,
and select futures. Select "More", and hold
the "Control" key down as you highlight the expirations you wish to add to your display. This is known as a future strip. You can add all of your required futures contracts to a monitor page this way. To learn more about
each contract, or to find out it's
trading hours and so on, right-click on the symbol, and from the financial
instrument info row, follow the arrow to
view its description. You will be able to see the exchange
information, contract, expiration, and last
trading details, as well as trading hours. Click-through the calendar
hyperlink to get a visual on trading
hours across the week. To display futures related
data on your monitor, right-click on any column header, and choose "Manage Columns" to display the
configuration menu. From the available columns
to the right of the display, locate, and expand
the futures grouping, and make your selections. Note that you should choose other common values from financial instrument
descriptions, prices, and high, low, volume, history,
sections as usual. If you wish to add a spread
between two contracts, you can use the convention of subtracting one
contract from another. For example, for gold contracts, to add the spread between
the December 2021, and June 2022 explorations, type GC Z 1 minus GC
M 2, and hit "Enter". You will see the bid ask prices, and the chart display the
recent history of the spread. Alternatively, enter GC in
the monitor, locate futures, and select
"Combinations", "Smart", and from the combo selection tool build the correct strategy. There is a lot of
information in this video to help you locate futures
contract details, and symbols, and how to add
them to your monitor page.