Now that we've described
different types of options as well
as the roles and responsibilities of buyers and sellers of options contracts, let's now turn our attention
to how these instruments are constructed and presented
on a trading platform. Any IBKR's Trader
Workstations Option Chain, you'll see a string
of columns that provide salient
market information about call and put options for particular underlying stock. Let's say for example, we've stuck to our movie
theme and we chose AMC entertainment or ticker
AMC as our underlying stock, when we do you'll see
these fields of options related data tied to
the stock populate. These columns tell you the
prevailing bid and ask prices for both call
and put contracts, as well as their
corresponding contract sizes, strike prices, and
expiration dates. The option chain has
several other fields you can add to this platform, but at this stage will
keep the tool as simple as possible and start
by exploring these. Remember, an equity
option is a derivative, meaning it derives its value from another financial product, namely the market value of a
particular underlying stock, ETF, or similar product, in this case, AMC stock. Defined further recall
that a stock option is a contract whereby a
buyer and seller agree to a specified
number of shares for a particular stock at a fixed price and over
a defined period. Key components of this contract include the underlying
securities' name, the month a contract
is due to terminate, as well as the strike
or exercise price, and the type of option
whether a call or a put. In this table, we can
read this option contract as an AMC September four call. For illustration purposes,
let's say you bought one of these call options
for a premium of $0.11. You may want to keep in mind
that this premium isn't a fixed price and it subject to fluctuation depending
on market dynamics, including the willingness among buyers and sellers to act as contract owner or writer at this mutually agreeable
price for that option. You may also recall that a
buyer of an options contract may be referred to as
being long that position. We can say that as the holder of this illustrative contract, you are long call option, giving you the right
to buy 100 shares of an AMC September
four call at $0.11. Why 100 shares? As a standard in the
US are typically 100 shares of stock for
each option contract, this is also considered
a multiplier. For example, if I
bought three contracts, this would mean I'd be long the AMC September four call at $0.11 and it would cost
me a premium of $0.33 to own the contracts or the
right to buy 300 shares at a fixed price of $4 per share at or before the
contract expires. In this case, if the option isn't exercised and the
contract expires, the deal is off the table, and the option is worthless. The buyer no longer has
the right to purchase those 300 shares of AMC
stock at $4 a share, regardless of where
AMC's market price may be at the time. If we look at the strike
price or exercise price from the perspective of
beholder of a put contract, then this holder would be
required to sell 300 shares of AMC stock to the writer or seller of that contract
for four dollars, Again regardless of where AMC
stock price in the market may be at the time if the
buyer's right was exercised. That's the nature of
the strike price, which as you may recall, is that predetermined
fixed price that's agreed upon in the
options contract. It's also the crux of
that critical question faced by options traders. Will the price of the
underlying stock rise or fall? Strike prices which
are generally set by the exchange where
the options listed, are positioned with values above and below that
stock's market price. Since those prices fluctuate, so the strike prices, with new ones continually created to reflect those
changes in the market. But once a contract is in
place, that strike price, along with the other
components and terms it contains will be in effect
until its expiration date. Let's take a look at
the different types of options and how their
strike prices work. Call options for example, with strike prices below the
current trading price of its underlying shares are
said to be in-the-money. However, those with
strike prices above the current price of the
underlying shares are said to be out-of-the-money
and would have no value if exercised
under those conditions. The relationship for put
options runs the opposite way. Here, strike prices above the current share price are
said to be in-the-money and those with strike prices below the current share price are
said to be out-of-the-money. Put another way, as a
writer of put options, you would expect the
underlying share price to remain above the strike price over the life of the
contract and you receive a premium for bearing
the risk that it doesn't. Turning again to
the option chain, for this particular class of
call options on AMC stock, we can see the strike
prices here, above, and below the market price
for the underlying security. Now you may have
noticed I mentioned a particular class of auctions. When you're trading in
the options market, you may hear about different classes of options
or series of options. If we're talking about all of
the calls on the AMC stock, for example, we're talking about the same class of options. That is one type of option with the same underlying security. Whenever we're talking
about all AMC put, that would be a different class given it's a different
type of option. Now, if we were referring to all the calls on AMC stock that all had the same expiration
date and exercise price, we'd be referring to an
option series that has the same option class with both the expiry and
exercise price in common. Now that we've covered
the basic language of stock options, what they are and the broad
strokes of how they work, will dig more deeply into the new words of these products, including the benefits and
risks of trading them, which is the subject
of our next video. We'll look forward
to seeing you then.