Call options conveyed
to the buyer the right, but not the obligation to
purchase a set number of shares of an underlying assets
at a predetermined price, known as the strike price, prior to the time that the
option contract expires. A call option buyer
does this with the expectation that the price of the underlying asset will rise at some point prior
to expiration. The buyer of the option pays a premium to the
seller for this right. For a call option,
the premium can be shown as a fixed cost
beneath the chart. If the market price of the underlying asset rises
above the strike price, the cost of the premium is
offset by an increase in the option's value and the option may become increasingly
profitable. If not, an option, buyer can lose the
entire premium. The option seller may have
unlimited risk of loss. Options involved risk and are not suitable for all investors. For more information, read the characteristics and risks
of standardized options. For a copy call 312-542-6901. Put options convey to
the buyer the right, but not the obligation
to sell a set number of shares of an underlying asset
at a predetermined price, the strike price prior to the time that they
option contract expires. A put option buyer does this with the expectation that the price of the underlying asset will fall at some point in the future. The buyer of the option pays a premium to the
seller for this right. For a put option, the
premium can be shown as a fixed cost
beneath the chart. As the market price of the underlying asset decreases
beneath the strike price, the cost of the premium is
offset by an increase in the option's value and the option becomes
increasingly profitable. Options provide investors
with more leverage and thus more risk that
is available with stocks given identical
investments. Profits and losses are magnified. However, option holders,
unlike shareholders, do not receive the underlying
companies dividends or voting rights. For example, assume an
investor buys 1,000 shares of Company XYZ Corp at $10 each for an initial capital
outlay of $10,000. If the share price
increase to $11, the investors capital
would increase to $11,000 for a 10 percent gain. With option contracts at 10 percent move in the value
of the underlying asset could translates into
a larger increase or decrease in the
price of the option. In the example, a
premium of $0.50 is paid for a call option with
a strike price of $10.25. If the market value of the underlying asset
price rises to $11, the option value rises to $0.75 and can be sold for
an increase of 50 percent. Option premiums and the
subsequent changes in option values can be predicted
through a pricing model, such as Black Shoals. Because we don't want to
overwhelm you with formulas, we will simplify things by taking you through the basic inputs of an option pricing model
and let you see how each input impacts
an option's value. Standard inputs of an option pricing model
are, strike price, interest rate,
implied volatility, underlying asset price,
and time to expiration. The strike price represents
the predetermined price at which an option
contract may be exercised, where a call option buyer can buy the underlying asset
from an option seller or a put option buyer can sell the underlying asset
to an option seller. Consider a company whose
share price is $32.90. An investor who expects the share price to
rise is considering buying a call option at
strike prices of $33 or $35. The investor expects
the share price to rise within the
following 90 days. The question the
investor faces is, what price should be paid for the rights conveyed
by the call option. The probability of the
share price rising to the $33 strike is greater than the probability of
the shares rising to $35. Therefore, the premium costs for the $33 strike option
would be higher than the premium cost of
the $35 strike option. The opposite is true for put options since they
convey selling rates. In this case, the
price of a put option at the $28 strike would be more costly than a put option
offering the right to sell at a lower $25 strike. The rate of interest
is a factor in determining the premium
cost of an option. That's because investors
are faced with an allocation choice
between various assets, including the risk-free rates of interest on government
securities. Investors tend to set the
value in the calculator at the rates available on government bills for the
period of the option. While the rate of
interest is a factor, it's significance in the
current market is fairly low. Having already noted
the importance of the relationship between underlying assets and strike
price to an option's price, It would stand to reason
that the outlook on future underlying
asset price movements would affect the
price of an option. The greater the forecasted
price movements or implied volatility, the greater the probability that an option will increase
or decrease in value. Therefore, the greater
the implied volatility, the greater the potential for the option's price to change. Implied volatility does not suggest whether prices
will go up or down, only that prices will move. Implied volatility or
a future outlook on price movements should not be confused with
historic volatility. While historic volatility may be a guide to determining
an implied volatility, an options pricing model
requires an estimate of implied volatility during
the option contract period. Option market participants
know the underlying price, strike price, interest rates, and number of days to expiration. Current option prices are readily available from
the exchanges and therefore implied
volatility can be backed into by an
options pricing model. Knowing implied volatility
across a range of different underlying
assets, strike prices, call options and put options allows a trader to easily compare options and to determine if price opportunities
exist in the market. The relationship between
the strike price and the underlying asset will have a strong influence on
the price of an option. For a call option, the higher the
underlying asset price in relation to the strike price, the higher the option premium. The payout at exercise of
the option is the difference between the underlying asset
price and the strike price. Options with an
underlying asset price below the strike are
out of the money, at the strike are at the money, and above the strike
are in the money. For a put option, the lower the
underlying asset price in relation to the strike price, the higher the option premium. The payout to the exercise of the option is the difference between underlying asset
price and the strike price. Options with an
underlying asset price above the strike price are out of the money at the strike at the money and below the
strike in the money. Remember that even though the
option may be in the money, it may still result in
a loss when considering both the premium and commission
paid for the option. While we are not factoring these costs in for the
sake of simplicity, they should be considered
when determining the break-even point for
the option contract. An option expiring today
would be worth the amount by which it
is in the money. If it is at the money, or out the money, then it has no current
intrinsic value. An option that has time before expiration generally
has extrinsic value. The extrinsic value represents
the probability that an option's underlying
asset value will move in the future, giving it the
potential to produce an increase in intrinsic value. Of the more time
until expiration, the greater the probability that an underlying asset move will increase an option's
intrinsic value. Therefore, for both
puts and calls, the greater the time
until expiration, the greater the extrinsic value. An options premium or
market value is equal to its intrinsic value plus
its extrinsic value. At option expiration, there is no extrinsic value remaining and so the options
market value will be equal to its intrinsic value. Two of the factors
that could affect an options price are option
style and dividends. Options style determines when
an option can be exercised. American style options can be exercised at any time
prior to, up to, and including the
day of expiration, while European style options can only be exercised at expiration. All models in these lessons assume American style options, which is the most common
type of US option. Dividends tend to affect
an option's price most when there are changes in
the dividend amount and around ex-dividend date due to the value of the dividend upon exercise up until the
ex-dividend date. Now that we have covered
the option pricing model, you should have a better
understanding of how changes in all of the inputs may
affect an option's price. You should also
note that rarely do these inputs move in isolation.