From a watchlist on the
monitor tab and click the underlying symbol you wish to create your covered
portrayed for. So long as your tabs are part
of the same Windows group. The underlying will appear
in the order entry panel. To the right of the
order entry panel, select strategy builder
from the drop-down menu. You will see the option chain
window populate the screen. To the lower left ensure that the strategy Build a
button is set to on. If you see off, just click the
button to activate. To create a covered put first, the put option must be identified before the
stock leg is added. Strategy bill that displays option chains at the
top of the page with call options to the left and put options to the rights of
the central strike column. You'll see the price
and daily change of the underlying to the upper
right of the window. Above the coal area, you will see tabs for
different explorations. Click a tab or to locate
additional expiration dates, Click on the More tab. Above the port area, you will see a dropdown
menu for strike prices. Access this menu to change or refine the number of strike price is
displayed on the page. Hovering the cursor above any bid price displays
a red background. This indicates that by
clicking on the field, it would create an auditor
sound that option. Hovering above any asked price, displays a blue background indicating that by
clicking on this field, it would create an audit
to buy the option. When a single strike is
clicked upon the selected leg, then populates the strategy
build the panel beneath the option chains
window where it can be manipulated before the
order is submitted. Locate the desired options
strike you want to transact. Click on the relevant
price field, and specifically the bid price of the put option to move the leg down to the
strategy builder. To include the underlying stock, expand the plus symbol in the
order entry panel beneath. Locate stamped leg, and
click on the field. The underlying is added
to the strategy build display beneath the
short put option leg. Close the Advanced display in the order entry panel below
by clicking the red X button. By default, along stone
position is created. Use the drop down menu in the action column to
change to sell from buy. Now the two pieces of
the covered porter displayed and below
the bid-ask column, you'll see the price quote
for the combination. This is the price
of the stock leg plus the premium received
for the put option. Use the order entry panel at the bottom of the page
to create the order. Define the quantity
of options to trade. Generally, one options contract covers 100 shares of stock. By selecting a number of options, that software will compute the correct number of
underlying shares to transact. Choose the right order type
from the drop down menu. If using a limit price, choose the value by clicking in the input field or simply
typing in the value. Select from the time
enforced jumped down, whether this is a
day or GTC order. Your order is ready to review. Click the Submit button to generate an order confirmation. When you have reviewed the
details, click Transmit. The order is sent for execution
at the exchange and will appear in the activity panel
to the lower left of mosaic. To pause or interact
with an active order. Click on it and
the activity panel and make them relevant choice.