[MUSIC] Now that we've covered some of the basic
ideas that broadly defined stock options. Let's now address some specific terms and
meanings as well as examine the roles and obligations of buyers and
sellers of options contracts. A stock option is basically a contract
whereby a buyer and seller agree to a specified number of shares of
a particular stock at a fixed price. And over a defined period. There are two main types of
option contracts, calls and puts. We'll explore how these types of options
are used by traders in a later video. But for now,
we can define a call contract, as one that gives the holder
of the contract the right. But not the obligation to buy
a stock at a predetermined price, over a given period of time. While a put option offers its holder the
right but again not the obligation to sell the stock at a predetermined price,
over a given period of time. Stock options have buyers and sellers not unlike any other
other financial transaction. Each with their own responsibilities for
their side of the contract. For example, if you purchase an options
contract, you are then considered the holder or owner of that contract and
long in an option position. As the contract owner again you have
the right but not the obligation to buy or sell the underlying stock. Depending on the type of option that
you've bought, whether a call or a put. And as a buyer you'll pay what is
called a premium to the seller. We'll take a closer look at this premium
in our next video, but for now you should keep in mind that this payment is the same
as the market price for the contract. And this can fluctuate,
with certain changes in market dynamics. Now as the contract owner, you have the choice to exercise your
option under the terms of your agreement. That is you can take delivery or
deliver, that certain number of underlying shares at or
before the time the contract expires. Or you can let the contract
expire at its expiration date, without exercising that right. The option holder also has the right
to sell the option to another buyer, during the lifetime of the contract,
or allow it to expire worthless. Now on the other side of
the contract is the seller, who may be referred to as the contract
writer, and short the option position. As the contract writer, you are obligated
to fulfill the terms of your contract with its holder, should the buyer
decide to exercise their right. The premium you receive from the buyer
is essentially in exchange for this obligation. So what happens if a buyer
exercises their right. Well, depending on the type of contract
sold, you as an options contract writer. Would be required to either buy or sell the underlying shares at the
predetermined price that was agreed upon. Since there are a lot of moving parts on
options contract, let's map it all out. An options contract has two sides,
a buyer and a seller. In the case of a call, the owner has a right to purchase
stock at a predetermined fixed price. And for that right is exercised at or
before expiry, the seller is required to sell that
stock to the buyer at that price. Regardless of what that stocks price
is in the market at that time. For a put option, the buyer has a right to
sell stock at a predetermined fixed price. And if that right is exercised, the writer is obligated to buy
it under the same conditions. So what happens in the event
the option expires worthless. Well, if you're a buyer
of an options contract, you're going to pay that
premium to the writer. Or if the option expires worthless, that payment will end up
being your maximum loss. Now, if you're the seller receiving this
premium and an option expires worthless. This payment will be the most
you'll gain from the transaction. However since options don't
always expire worthless, there are several strategies a trader may
use to generate income or mitigate risk. Or face other potential positive or
adverse outcomes. And these will be discussed
further along in the course. We'll also discuss how to
calculate your breakeven point. That is determining at what price
the underlying security in your options contract needs to be trading at. So that you don't lose or
make any gain from your investment. In the meantime in our next video, we'll show you how you can identify
options on a trading platform. And we'll also further define their
key components and characteristics. We'll look forward to seeing you there.