From a watch list
on the Monitor tab, click the underlying
symbol you wish to create your
options trade for. So long as your tabs are part
of the same Windows group, the underlying will appear
in the Order Entry panel. To the right of the
Order Entry panel, select "Option Chain"
from the drop-down menu. The option chain display
shows call options to the left and put options to the right of the
central strike column. You will see the price and
the daily change of the underlying to the upper
right of the window. Above the core area, you will see tabs for
different explorations. Click a tab or to locate
additional expiration dates, click on the More tab. Above the put area, you will see a drop-down
menu for strike prices. Access this menu to change or refine the number of strike
prices displayed on the page. Hovering the cursor above any bid price displays
a red background. This indicates that by
clicking on the field, it would create an order
to sell that option. Hovering above any
asked price displays a blue background indicating that by clicking on this field, it would create an
order to buy an option. Clicking a single strike will close the option
chain window and populates the Order Entry panel with the chosen option leg. Locate the desired option
strike you want to transact. Click on the relevant
price field, which will close the
option chain display. Use the Order Entry
panel to define the quantity of
options to trade. Choose the right order type
from the drop-down menu. If you're using a limit price, choose the value by clicking in the input field or simply
typing in the value. Select from the time
enforced drop-down, whether this is a
day or GTC order. Your order is ready to review. Click the "Submit" button to generate an order confirmation. When you have reviewed the
details, click "Transmit". The order is sent for execution at the exchange
and will appear in the activity panel to the
lower left of mosaic. To pause or interact
with an act of order, click on it in the
activity panel and make the relevant choice.