As you go through the
examples that follow, you may notice that
some strategies use different mixes of products, yet have similar risk
reward structures. This is because the
prices of puts and calls are inextricably
linked to each other and the price of the
underlying stock through an equation known
as put-call parity. The call price plus the
strike price is equal to the forward value of a stock
price plus the put price. It is important to use the
forward value of the stock, which is adjusted for
interest rates and dividends, rather than strictly the
current price of the stock. We can calculate the
forward value this way. The forward value equals the current value multiplied by one plus the interest rate times the days until
expiration divided by 365, less dividends. In a low rates environment, the forward value of
a stock that pays no dividends is roughly
equal to the current value. If interest rates are high
or a stock is hard to borrow or the stock pays a dividend during the
life of the option, the forward value may differ meaningfully from the
current stock price. When we examined the
put-call parity formula, simple algebra shows
us to demonstrate how different structures
have similar payoffs. For example, the call
price is equal to the forward value minus the strike price
plus the put price, that shows that the value
of a call is the same as being longer stock
and longer put. You will notice that those path graphs
look quite similar. As you go through
the study guide, keep this equation
in mind when you see other similar looking graphs. If we structure the
equation this way, we see that a long call
and short put with the same strike and exploration creates a synthetic future. The forward value equals
the strike price plus the call price minus
the put price. The difference between
the forward value and the current value of a stock is a function of
interest rates and dividends. Because option
prices are based on the forward value of
the underlying product, it is crucial that options investors consider the effects of dividends and interest rates when implementing
their strategies. Keep this in mind
as we move forward.