Now that we've introduced
you to some of the mechanics of trading Futures, including the roles of
commoditized contracts, let's turn your attention
to the use of margin. Most Futures contracts require investors to post margin
with their broker. While this is a good faith
deposit required of investors to help ensure they abide by the rules set by the exchange, brokerage companies can
ask their clients to set aside more than
this minimum amount. The exchange monitors
the price variation of its contracts over time, and we'll set the
margin according to the volatility of
each underlying. Investors should be aware
that margin requirements can, and will change
from time to time, especially in the event
of market volatility. The exchange is typically ambivalent to long
or short positions, and charges the same margin
requirement either way. Again, brokerage
firms can augment the rules on this front
should they choose. To establish the
margin requirement, exchange is typically calculate in post-product price thresholds. That is the maximum permitted daily price move per product, and use the value of
that price change as the required margin. In other words, should
the price of a contract fall by its maximum
permitted value, causing the exchange
to suspend trading, investors holding long
positions would face losses exactly equal to
their margin requirement. You may also want to keep in mind that Futures provide extremely efficient and relatively low-cost investment
opportunities, providing tools for hedging and speculation without ever
owning the underlying. As the Futures markets
continue to undergo ongoing transformation
to electronic trading, trading costs have
been trending lower. Now overall, you should be more familiar with Futures
market trading, including some of
the products, risks, and safeguards as what was
the difference between spot and forward prices,
contango and backwardation, and the other insights
into market mechanics, including the roles of
commoditized contracts and margin. We thank you for joining us.