Well, investing and trading
in the options market, may seem somewhat
more daunting than other asset classes
such as stocks, bonds, exchange-traded funds, currencies, and commodities. You'll ultimately find that
their complexity can be boiled down to simple
concepts you'll be able to understand and use
the more you're exposed to and have hands-on
experience with material. Our aim is for you to acquire these skills as well as the
know-how to invest in trade, in these often complex
financial instrument. For example, did you
know that the value of an equity option is essentially derived from the future
performance of a stock, exchange traded fund,
or similar product? This is the derivative
nature of options. But what exactly is an option and how do they function
as derivatives? Why would you as an investor or trader decide to use them? We'll cover factors such as
these as well as many others, and by the end of this module, you should have the basic
language skills to enable you to distinguish between
call and put options. Identify the components of an options contract of
a trading platform. Make certain decisions about
what you're able to do in the options market as a
contract writer or owner. Read different stock positions, and tell whether a given position is in or out of the money. I'll also present
you with some of the benefits and
critical risks you may face as an options investor or trader depending on your
financial conditions, investment objectives,
or other requirements. We'll also give you a
broad overview of some of the institutions involved
in the options market, including the Options
Clearing Corporation, and how you can access its
options disclosure document. Which will provide
you with a host of important insights including
margin requirements, tax considerations,
and other topics. As you progress
through this module, you should start acquiring those basic building blocks of the options market
that will help you advance to more
nuanced features and complex trading strategies
specific to this asset class. I'm Steven Levine with
Interactive Brokers, looking forward to
your participation.