[MUSIC] From a watchlist on the monitor tab, click the underlying symbol you wish
to create your options trade for. So long as your tabs are part
of the same windows group, the underlying will appear
in the order entry panel. To the right of the order entry panel, select option chain from
the drop down menu. The option chain display shows
call options to the left and put options to the right of
the central strike column. You will see the price and the daily change of the underlying
to the upper right of the window. Above the call area you'll see tabs for
different expirations. Click a tab or
to locate additional expiration dates. Click on the More Tab. Above the footer area, you'll see
a drop down menu for strike prices. Access this menu to change or refine the number of strike
prices displayed on the page. Hovering the cursor above any bid
price displays a red background. This indicates that by
clicking on the field, it would create an order
to sell that option. Hovering above any ask price displays
a blue background indicating that by clicking on this field,
it would create an order to buy an option. Clicking a single strike will
close the option chain window and populates the order entry panel
with the chosen option leg. Locate the desired option
strike you want to transact, click on the relevant price field,
which will close the option chain display. Use the order entry panel to define
the quantity of options to trade. Choose the right order type
from the drop down menu. If using a limit price, choose the value
by clicking in the input field, or simply typing in the value. Select from the time and force drop
down whether this is a day or GTC order. Your order is ready to review. Click the Submit button to
generate an order confirmation. When you have reviewed
the details click Transmit. The order is sent for
execution at the exchange and will appear in the activity panel
to the lower left of mosaic. To pause or interact with an active order,
click on it in the activity panel and make the relevant choice. [MUSIC]