In this video, we'll introduce
you to equity options, by providing you with
a broad overview of this often complex asset class, including how they function
as a financial derivative, as well as some of the reasons, traders decides to use them. Now I'm assuming
your first question is most likely going to be, what exactly is an option? On broad terms an
option, is a derivative. While the word
derivative may spur some memories of calculus
class, in finance, a derivative can be
thought of very simply as one financial
instrument whose value is derived from the
performance of another. The value of an equity
option, for example, is essentially derived from
the performance of a stock, exchange traded fund,
or similar product. Here's an easy concept
to help you understand how a derivative in
finance can work. Let's look at a proposed
financial product called a 'Movie Derivative', which as we'll see,
has a lot in common with ways in which we
can think about options. A Movie Derivative, which was proposed and failed to
gain support in 2010, ended allowing investors to speculate on The Box
Office performance, of a theatrical movie release. Now for illustrative
purposes let's say you think a movie scheduled for release next summer is going to be a hit. You've learned that
if you invest it in a certain movie derivative, would earn you a nice
profit, if you were right. Should you? Or let me
ask you this first. Why do you think audiences are going to go crazy about it? Is it just a hunter of people on social media been
raving about it saying, this thing could take
in more than Star Wars, Titanic, or The Avengers? If they are, what support could you use to back
up these claims? You may ask, who are the
people behind the project, or in front of the camera? Are there track
records of success? How widely distributed,
will the movie be, and how many screens? What's the marketing strategy? Will the trailer alone, make me want to go buy
a ticket and see it? Let's say all signs point to yes. Yes, you should buy
this movie derivative. The film is most likely going
to be a blockbuster but, something nags at you. Still not entirely
convinced you should. But what do other investors
in the market think? How much interest does this movie derivative have
among buyers and sellers? Well, here, you see heavy buying. In fact, investors are more interested in purchasing
this movie derivative, than those shorting,
or selling it, by a ratio of at least 10 to one. With the lion's share of
the speculation saying that Box Office revenues
will exceed a $100 million, in the films first week of release. Are you convinced yet? If you buy this movie derivative, and the movie makes
more than a $100 million in its first weekend, just tend to make a profit
on your investment. But if you're wrong, you
would lose your investment, or the premium you paid to
the seller of the product. But you say, this just
sounds too good to be true. I'm going to short
this movie derivative. Now, why would you say that? What makes you think, given all the hype and the
buying interests, the movie is not
going to be a hit? In fact, you think it's
going to be a disaster. What do you know that
most others don't? On your research
you've looked beyond the social media
platforms and you've heard talk among some
trusted industry experts, that there's a strong risk the film is going
overtime on production. It's going over its budget, and it's very likely not going
to meet its release date. All very worrying signs that
are further compounded, a scattered rumor is that the director may walk off
set before production end. You believe that all the hype is just to provide cover
for the failing project. You're willing to
accept the premium from the buyer on this
movie derivative, as opposed to taking the risk, paying it, and losing
your investment. A couple of weeks before the
film was due to be released, news surfaces on some
major media channels that, indeed, the film is over budget, and there are concerns
about its release date. Did you make the right
decision? You might think so. But, on an opening weekend line stretched out the
door for this movie. It's showed in just about
every major US city, as well as at almost
every local theater across the country. In most major Cineplexes the movie is showed on
at least four screens. Although several high
profile critics pend it, audiences couldn't get enough. Everyone was talking about it. I'm going to see it again. I'm going for the third time. My cousin wants to see it now. The movie made well over a $100 million on
its first weekend, in fact, it neared $150 million. Given this outcome,
you've now found yourself on the wrong
side of the trade. While you collected your premium, buyers of this movie derivative, they had much better
on their investment. But while movie derivatives never made it as actual
trading products, they were ultimately
banned after the signing of the 2010 Financial Reform Act, the concept still
lends itself nicely to explaining how derivatives
and finance can work. For instance, you
likely gleaned from this example that the challenge with trading movie derivatives, would have been an
accurately gauging how audiences will
respond to the movie. Yes, you may hear all of rumors, do research on the track record of the greed of team
involved in the film, the star power on screen and the marketing forces
that push the product, but it's uncertainties over the films effect on the audience. Its accessibility and
availability to be seen, as long as its word
of mouth reputation once it's released, that basically drive the size
of its Box Office revenues. What does this have to
do with options trading? On a similar way that the movie derivatives
value would be based on the future Box Office
performance of a film, traders, use options to speculate on the future performance of stocks, bonds, indexes, and
foreign currency. A trader of stock
options, for example, would generally want to analyze a multitude of factors
about the underlying stock, to gauge whether its
price will rise, or fall, over a certain
limited period of time. Much like the audience's response to a movie around
its release date. Will they stand and applaud, or sink back in their seats? As a buyer or seller of stock
options you may consider all the same fundamental
and/or technical analyses that equity analysts use, among other methods that are more specific for the options market, to ultimately help
inform your decision, as to whether a
particular stock will rise or fall within a
predetermined time-frame. Options traders also have a slew of other measures
by which they may analyze the potential performance
of these instruments, including implied
volatility, as well as a host of different
sensitivity value. While we'll explore
these concepts more in depth later
in the course, it's important to
keep in mind that stock options traders
are generally concerned, with whether they believe
a given underlying stock, will rise or fall over
a given period of time. This is the derivative
nature of these products. Meanwhile, beyond
the speculation, traders may look to the
equities option market for variety of other reasons
including income generation, as well as tools for hedging
against existing positions, and various risk
mitigation strategy. We'll also be diving more
deeply into these topics. In our next video, we'll explore some critical terms and
meanings in the options market, as well as examine the
roles and responsibilities, of buyers and sellers of
stock options contract. Come back. Enjoy.