PAGE 1
Options Monitor
Powered by IVolatility
The Options Monitor, powered by iVolatility, allows users to explore quotes for stocks, ETFs 
and indexes, while viewing a variety of key options data, including the Greeks, implied 
volatility, bid-ask spreads and volume. Expirations can be changed to display additional 
data, including LEAPS®, weekly options and quarterlies. Plus, access to the Options Calcula-
tor and Probability Calculator is available directly from within the monitor. Note that all data 
for US stocks, options, dividends and interest rates are provided with a 20-minute delay. If 
the markets are closed, the previous trading day's market closing price will be used.
Choose a Stock Symbol, Index 
Symbol, or Option Symbol
Input any stock, index or option symbol. If you 
don't know the symbol or the option you can 
browse by company name, instrument, market 
or exchange via the "Symbol Lookup" icon. 
Once you select a symbol, data will populate 
the rectangular box to the right of the search 
box, as well as the horizontal list of all 
available option expirations below.
/uni2196
Data Displayed
To the right of the search box, various metrics 
for the selected symbol are displayed. Hover 
over each for a deﬁnition and additional detail 
on how those metrics are gathered and 
calculated. Available Metrics include:
• Price / Open / High / Low
• Implied Volatility Index (IVX) 30 / IVX 30 Chng 
/ Implied Volatility Percentile (IVP) 30 / 
• Historical Volatility (HV) 20
• Options Volume (OV) / AvgOV1MO / Call OV 
/ Put OV
• Open Interest (OI) / Avg OI 1Mo / Shares 
Outstanding (SO) / Share Volume (SV)
Available expirations will be listed horizontally 
below this large box and each expiration date 
is clickable to zoom in on that month 
individually, or the user can click the ‘Show All’ 
expiration dates to have all months appear in 
the table below. 
See glossary in appendix for more. 
/uni2196
/uni2196
PAGE 2
Data Displayed Continued...
The drop downs below this display of 
available expiration months allows for further 
customization of the display including: 
• Expirations
• Mid Price 
• Number of strikes represented per month
• Calls & Puts
The green gear icon lists viewable column 
data for the table below. It includes metrics 
such as the Greeks, implied volatility levels, 
previous close, size, time, etc.  All of these can 
be toggled on or oﬀ to be added or 
subtracted from the view in the table below.
The below table will then populate data for 
each month of options and display the pricing 
matrix with information as selected by the user 
in the settings.  
The header for each month includes these 
defaults:
• Expiry date of the option
• DTE – how many days are left before the 
option expires
• Forward price – the forward price of the 
underlying being used to calculate the 
option values for that month.
Calculators
At any point, a user may click on the green 
calculator symbol on each strike to bring up 
the options and probability calculator function 
for that option strike. The ﬁelds in the 
calculator will be pre populated with data 
from the strike used to activate the calculator.
See Options Calculator and Probability 
Calculator for more information.
/uni2196
/uni2196
PAGE 3
Glossary
ALPHA: Alpha is an option Greek. Alpha is a ratio of 
Gamma over Theta. Thus Alpha indicates the relative 
value of owning gamma relative to the current level of 
theta. It is a measure that allows for comparison of 
several diﬀerent options on the basis of how much they 
cost daily to own (daily Theta) versus the potential 
Gamma derived return (proﬁts from movement) from 
owning them. The greater absolute value of Alpha the 
more potential for proﬁts exists against the loss from 
Theta for long positions. The converse is true for short 
positions.
AVERAGE OF PUTS AND CALLS IV: This number is 
derived internally by ﬁnding a simple average or a 
mean of the put and call implied volatility.
CALL BID/ ASK MEAN: This number is calculated by 
ﬁnding a simple average of the market maker's bid and 
ask price for call options only.
CALL/ PUT VOLATILITY RATIO: This is a variation of the 
traditional volume based Put/Call Ratio. However, in 
this particular case, the Put/Call Ratio is based on a 
Vega weighting of implied volatility. The ratio is arrived 
at by dividing the Vega weighted implied call volatility 
by the Vega weighted implied put volatility. This helps 
express the bullish/bearish sentiment of market 
participants.
CHANGE VS. YESTERDAY: When in the implied Volatility 
section, this number can be derived by comparing the 
implied volatility index last ﬁgure to its previous night's 
level. However, when in the historical volatility section 
this number is derived by taking the historical volatility 
last ﬁgure and comparing to its previous night's level. In 
both cases, the diﬀerences are then expressed as 
simple numerical changes.
% CHANGE VS. YESTERDAY: The IV index % change 
number is derived by comparing the implied volatility 
index last ﬁgure shown on the screen against the 
previous night's level, this diﬀerence is then expressed 
as a percent. In the case of HV % change, this number is 
calculated by taking the diﬀerence between the 
historical volatility last ﬁgure shown on the screen and 
the previous night's level. The diﬀerence is then 
expressed as a percentage. 
DELTA: Delta is an option Greek. The theoretical amount 
an option's price will change for a corresponding 
one-point change in the price of the underlying 
security.
GAMMA: Gamma is an option Greek. The theoretical 
change in Delta divided by the dollar change in the 
price of the underlying security's price. It is the 
measurement of the rate of change in an options price 
with respect to the underlying price.
HISTORICAL VOLATILITY OR HV: Historical volatility is 
the volatility that actually occurred to the underlying 
stock over some previous time period. It can be derived 
in several diﬀerent fashions. The most common way to 
calculate historical volatility is to use the daily closing 
prices and compare them over some past time period.
IMPLIED VOLATILITY OR IV: Implied Volatility is the 
market's best approximation of future volatility, and it is 
obtained by plugging the current option price into an 
option pricing model and backsolving to arrive at the 
options implied volatility.
IMPLIED VOLATILITY AS A % OF THE LATEST 30 DAY HV 
LEVEL: This ﬁgure is calculated by taking the implied 
volatility last and dividing it by the 30 day historical 
level. The resulting ﬁgure is then expressed as a 
percentage.
IMPLIED VOLATILITY INDEX (IV INDEX or "IVX"): IVX is the 
composite measure of the stock's implied volatility 
calculated from an option's price using IVolatility 
proprietary methodology. Example: IVX30 is calculated 
for the forward 30 calendar days.
OPEN INTEREST:  Open interest is deﬁned as the number 
of outstanding contracts on a particular option class (all 
put or call contracts on the same underlying stock or 
index) or series (all options on the same underlying stock 
or index having the same strike price and expiration 
date) that are still open. As of the reporting date, these 
options have not been exercised, closed out or allowed 
to expire.
OPTION PRICING MODEL:  An option model is used to 
assess an option's price. The Black-Scholes model led 
the way in the pricing of equity options back in 1973. 
However, as options trading has grown, various 
reﬁnements to the Black-Scholes model have been 
introduced. Nevertheless, most models still incorporate 
the following factors into their pricing assumptions: the 
underlying security price, the strike price, the time until 
expiration, any dividends to be paid, the level of interest 
rates, and the implied volatility.
OPTION VALUE: This is the option's price as determined 
by the parameters input into the option model. The 
inputs consist of the following: the underlying security 
price, the strike price, the time until expiration, any 
dividends to be paid, the level of interest rates, and the 
implied volatility.
PUT BID/ ASK MEAN: This number is calculated by 
ﬁnding a simple average of the market maker's bid and 
ask spread for put options only.
PAGE 4
Glossary Continued...
RHO: Rho is an option Greek. A measure of change in an 
options price in response to a one percentage point 
change in the risk-free interest rate.
STRIKE PRICE: The stated price per share for which the 
underlying stock may be purchased (in the case of a 
call) or sold (in the case of a put) by the option holder 
upon exercise of the option contract.
THETA: Theta is an option Greek. A measure of how 
much an option's price theoretically decays with each 
passing day with the price of the underlying security 
and implied volatility remaining unchanged.
VEGA: Vega is an option Greek. The measure of 
theoretical change in an option's price in response to a 
one percentage point change in implied volatility.
VOLATILITY: Volatility can be deﬁned as the propensity 
of the underlying security's market price to change in 
either direction and is based on the standard deviation 
of the asset's return. It is quoted as an annualized 
percentage rate. Volatility is a variable that appears in 
option pricing formulas and therefore the greater the 
volatility, the greater the premium of an option. There 
are several diﬀerent types of volatility. These include 
historical, implied, actual, seasonal and forecasted 
volatility. 
VOLUME: Volume is deﬁned as the actual number of 
stock shares or option contracts that traded on that 
particular day.
Disclaimer
The Probability Calculator and 20-minute delayed options quotes are provided by IVolatility, 
and NOT BY OCC. The tool is being provided for educational purposes only. OCC makes no 
representation as to the timeliness, accuracy or validity of the information and this informa-
tion should not be construed as a recommendation to purchase or sell a security, or to 
provide investment advice. For more information or help, please contact us at 
options@theocc.com.
LEAPS® is a registered trademark of Cboe Exchange Inc.