PAGE 1
Options Calculator
Powered by IVolatility
The Options Calculator, powered by IVolatility.com, provides fair values and Greeks of any 
option using IVolatility.com data and 20-minute delayed prices. You may customize all the 
input parameters (option style, price of the underlying instrument, strike, expiration, implied 
volatility, interest rate and dividends data) or enter a stock or options symbol and the 
database will populate all ﬁelds for you. Note that the option's underlying price is 20-minute 
delayed. If the markets are closed, the previous trading day's market closing price will be 
used.
/uni2196
Choose a Stock Symbol, Index 
Symbol, or Option Symbol
Input any stock, index or option symbol. If you 
don't know the symbol or the option you can 
browse by company name, instrument, market 
or exchange via the "Symbol Lookup" icon. 
Once you select a symbol, data will populate 
the table with the stock's price and the closest 
to expiring at-the-money options.
American-style vs. European-style
Next, select whether to price the option as an 
American-style or European-style type option.
AMERICAN-STYLE: The majority of stock options 
listed for trading on the options exchanges in the 
United States are American-style options. This means 
that the option can be exercised at any time on or 
before expiration. This early exercise capability is 
factored into the pricing of the options. There are 
some index options that are American-style and you 
should check the product speciﬁcations supplied by 
the exchange for this information. This Options 
Calculator uses a binomial model with 100 steps to 
create a theoretical price for American-style options. 
EUROPEAN-STYLE: Most (but not all) index options 
listed for trading on the options exchanges in the 
United States are European-style options. This 
means that the option can be exercised only on its 
expiration date. This inability to exercise until 
expiration is factored into the pricing of the options. 
This option calculator uses a Black-Scholes model 
for European-style options.
/uni2196
PAGE 2
Last Price
The option's underlying price is 20-minute 
delayed. If the markets are closed, the 
previous trading day's market closing price will 
be used. The user can change it to today's 
current price or any other price by manually 
entering the desired price. Notice that the 
price must be entered in decimal format.
/uni2196
Strike
The strike price of the option shown can be 
changed manually. The default is the 
at-the-money strike. 
 /uni2196
Expiry
This will populate a drop down with all 
potential expiration dates. The default value 
will be the closest expiry date, or the option 
with the fewest days to expiration. Expiry date 
and time are customizable and modiﬁcations 
will display possible impact to an option’s 
value.
/uni2196
Volatility
The default Volatility is automatically 
populated and derived from last night's 
implied volatility for that particular put and 
call option series. Users can change the 
volatility by entering any other value.
/uni2196
Interest Rate
The default risk-free interest rate is derived 
from last night's treasury market and is the 
rate that is equivalent to the option's 
expiration term. Users can change the interest 
rate by entering any other value.
/uni2196
Dividend Amount, Date & Frequency
Depending upon whether a stock pays a 
dividend or not, this section may or may not 
contain data. If there is data within the ﬁelds 
you can alter it by simply adding in the 
dividend amount and the corresponding 
ex-dividend date into the ﬁelds. The 
calculator will then price the options 
accordingly.
/uni2196
PAGE 3
Calculation
At this step, the user is now ready to calculate 
the call and put prices for this option. Using 
the values entered, the Greeks are calculated 
in conjunction with the options prices. The 
Greeks (Delta, Gamma, Theta, Vega and Rho) 
are mathematical values that measure the 
sensitivity of an option's price to stock, time, 
volatility and interest rate changes.
DELTA: The theoretical amount an option's price will 
change for a corresponding one-point change in the 
price of the underlying security.
GAMMA: The theoretical change in Delta divided by the 
dollar change in the price of the underlying security's 
price. It is the measurement of the rate of change in an 
option's Delta with respect to the underlying price.
THETA: A measure of how much an option's price 
theoretically decays with each passing day with the 
price of the underlying security and implied volatility 
remaining unchanged.
VEGA: The theoretical measure of change in an option's 
price in response to a one percentage point change in 
implied volatility.
RHO: A measure of change in an options price in 
response to a one percentage change in the risk-free 
interest rate.
ALPHA:
 Alpha is a ratio of Gamma over Theta. Thus 
Alpha indicates the relative value of owning gamma 
relative to the current level of theta. It is a measure that 
allows for comparison of several diﬀerent options on the 
basis of how much they cost daily to own (daily Theta) 
versus the potential gamma derived return (proﬁts from 
movement) from owning them. The greater absolute 
value of Alpha the more potential for proﬁts exists 
against the loss from Theta for long positions. The 
converse is true for short positions.
Options Price & Implied Volatility 
On the bottom, left side of the tool, the user 
has the ability to input a diﬀerent options 
price. When this is done, the user will notice 
the corresponding implied volatility reading 
that would be tied to that option price with all 
other factors remaining unchanged. In this, 
users may be able to perform a “what if” 
simulation to view how option prices might be 
aﬀected by larger changes in implied volatility 
levels, with all other factors remaining static. 
/uni2196 /uni2196
PAGE 4
Disclaimer
The Options Calculator and 20-minute delayed options quotes are provided by IVolatility, 
and NOT BY OCC. The tool is being provided for educational purposes only. OCC makes 
no representation as to the timeliness, accuracy or validity of the information and this 
information should not be construed as a recommendation to purchase or sell a security, 
or to provide investment advice. For more information or help, please contact us at 
options@theocc.com.