PAGE 1
Proﬁt and Loss Simulator
Powered by IVolatility
The Position Proﬁt and Loss Simulator, powered by IVolatility.com, allows users to explore the 
potential proﬁt and loss of hypothetical trades. The user can enter multiple trades, also 
known as legs, and can customize variables such as stock price, volatility, interest rates, 
days to expiration and dividends to model theoretical changes. Note that all data is 
provided with a 20-minute delay. If the markets are closed, the previous trading day's 
market closing price will be used.
Choose a Stock Symbol, Index 
Symbol, or Option Symbol
Input any stock, index or option symbol and 
select ‘Find Chain.’ Once entered, an options 
chain pop up window will appear listing all 
options on the underlying security. 
Users can add a position to the PnL simulator 
from the Options Chains as follows: 
• To add the underlying stock or ETF, click 
the ‘Add Stock to Calculator’ on the 
bottom left of the Options Chains window.
Note: users will not be able to add the 
underlying if the underlying is an index but can 
instead use a tradeable ETF for an index. 
• To add option legs, click on the bid price 
link to sell, or the ask price link to enter a 
buy.
/uni2196
Position Leg Details
Once all desired legs of the positions are 
entered users can check the details of each 
leg and make any corrections. All changes are 
made in the Position Details window.
/uni2196
/uni2196
PAGE 2
The user can adjust the price of the 
options/stock manually by typing in the price 
column. By default, the column shows a 
20-minute delayed price from the time the leg 
was added. 
The quantity column allows the user to enter 
the desired quantity for each leg. The user can 
also change the expiry, strike, and type of 
each leg.
Delete any leg by clicking on the (X) icon in the 
ﬁrst column.
The other Greek values in the table are 
calculated and are not available for editing.
The Greeks are represented in shares 
equivalent. The absolute values of the Greeks 
are multiplied by the standard contract size 
and the quantity of options selected in the 
QTY column.
/uni2196
IMPLIED VOLATILITY OR IV: Implied Volatility is the
market's best approximation of future volatility, and it is 
obtained by plugging the current option price into an 
option pricing model and backsolving to arrive at the 
option’s implied volatility.
DELTA: The theoretical amount an option's price will 
change for a corresponding one-point change in the 
price of the underlying security.
GAMMA: The theoretical change in Delta divided by the 
dollar change in the price of the underlying security's 
price. It is the measurement of the rate of change of an 
option’s Delta with respect to the underlying price.
THETA: A measure of how much an option's price 
theoretically decays with each passing day with the 
price of the underlying security and implied volatility 
remaining unchanged.
VEGA: The theoretical measure of change in an option's 
price in response to a one percentage point change in 
implied volatility.
Total Position
The Total Position window shows the summed 
total position Greeks as well as the Bid/Ask 
and Mid price of all options in the position.
Underlying Price - The user can enter prices 
and view how those price changes will aﬀect 
the net Greeks and PnL.
Price - The Bid/Ask prices will be used 
according to the strategy (Bid for Sell and Ask 
for Buy). 
Mid-price - The mid-price will be used for all 
position legs. 
Invert Chart - The legs will be switched from 
buy to sell and vice-versa.
/uni2196
/uni2196
PAGE 3
Simulation Panel
To change the volatility assumption the user 
can manipulate the slider in the ﬁrst window of 
the Simulation Panel. The user can also enter a 
number in the text entry ﬁeld or drag the slider.
Changes in volatility can be made in “Relative” 
terms or “Absolute”. For example, if the current 
IV is 20 a 10% relative move would translate to 
22%. The 2% is added to the original 20% 
because the relative move is positive. 
To simulate changes in volatility in absolute 
terms, choose "Absolute" from the drop-down 
menu. After a 10% absolute change, for 
example, volatility would equal 30% (10 + 20). 
To see how time to expiration aﬀects the 
position, use the horizontal slider located 
above the volatility slider. Changes can be 
made by typing in the number of days in the 
text-entry ﬁeld. The user can also drag the 
horizontal slider with their mouse or click on 
the calendar icon and choose a date.
Days to expiration always populates with 
today’s date.
Interest Rates 
By default, the tool uses SOFR rates in the PnL 
calculation. However, the user can input their 
own rates on the ﬁrst window of the ‘Advanced 
Settings’ panel to view how diﬀerent interest 
rate assumptions will impact the position. 
/uni2196
/uni2196
Dividends 
Dividends and dividend yields are provided 
from the iVolatility database. The user can 
check and edit them through the “Div/Size” 
simulation window. The contract size can be 
edited. The default for the contract size is 100.
/uni2196
/uni2196
PAGE 4
Disclaimer
The Proﬁt and Loss Simulator and 20-minute delayed options quotes are provided by 
IVolatility, and NOT BY OCC. The tool is being provided for educational purposes only. OCC 
makes no representation as to the timeliness, accuracy or validity of the information and this 
information should not be construed as a recommendation to purchase or sell a security, or 
to provide investment advice. For more information or help, please contact us at 
options@theocc.com.
Stock Price/ PnL Scenario
A table summary of various PnL’s across 
diﬀerent price points is displayed to the left of 
the chart. At breakeven the proﬁt is equal to 
zero. The table defaults to today’s date and 
will change when various inputs are changed 
(time, price, and expiration). If the user wants 
to simulate breakeven(s) at expiration, move 
the days to expiration slider all the way to the 
right or type "0" in the "Days to Expire" ﬁeld.
To calculate the PnL for option positions the 
theoretical option price according to the 
simulated stock price is used. The Black- 
Scholes model is used for European-style 
options and for early exercise of 
American-style options with an underlying 
without dividends and for all others  Cox- 
Ross-Rubinstein binomial tree model is used.
Interactive Chart
Once the strategy is entered into the 
calculator the line graph will be drawn in the 
main window automatically. The chart will 
display the proﬁt and loss as of the day the 
trade was entered. 
The blue horizontal bold line on the graph 
shows your breakeven point, i.e., where your 
proﬁt would equal zero.
The user can slide the pointer over the line 
graph and a crosshair will appear. Use this 
feature to pinpoint exact proﬁts at a given 
price level for the underlying. If the user clicks 
on the chart, it will ﬁx the crosshair and display 
the proﬁt or loss at that speciﬁc underlying 
price. Click the mouse again to release the 
crosshair.
To zoom in or zoom out on the graph, use the 
"+” and “-" icons. The user can also drag the 
graph up or down, left or right, to see any 
portion of the picture.
/uni2196
/uni2196