PAGE 1
Probability Calculator
Powered by IVolatility
The Probability Calculator, powered by IVolatility.com allows you to enter a stock, index, or 
ETF to populate information on its potential price movement. The calculator will provide you 
with the last price of the instrument, current dividend and interest rate information, and 
allow you to select a target expiration date. Using this information and custom price inputs, 
the calculator provides a statistical probability of the underlying touching either of two 
prices (P1 or P2) or settling in between the two and touching neither.  Note that all data is 
provided with a 20-minute delay. If the markets are closed, the previous trading day's 
market closing price will be used.
Choose a Stock Symbol, Index 
Symbol, or Option Symbol
Input any stock, index or option symbol. If you 
don't know the symbol, you can browse by 
company name, instrument, market or 
exchange via the "Symbol Lookup" icon. Once 
you select a symbol, data will populate the 
table with the underlying's current price,
interest rate and dividend data. Users can 
adjust all of these ﬁelds.
Last Price
The option's underlying price is 20-minute 
delayed. If the markets are closed, the 
previous trading day's market closing price will 
be used. The user can change it to today's 
current price or any other price by manually 
entering the desired price. Notice that the 
price must be entered in decimal format.
Interest Rate
The default risk-free interest rate is derived 
from last night's treasury market and is the 
rate that is equivalent to the option's 
expiration term. Users can change the interest 
rate by entering any other value.
/uni2196
/uni2196
/uni2196
PAGE 2
Expiry
This will populate a drop down with all 
potential expiration dates. The default value 
will be the closest expiry date, or the option 
with the fewest days to expiration. Expiry date 
and time are customizable and modiﬁcations 
will display possible impact to an option’s 
value.
Time
The three boxes represent days, hours, and 
minutes left to expiry. This can be changed to 
reﬂect a non-standard expiry date or to 
perform “what if” analysis.
Dividend Amount, Date & Frequency
Depending upon whether a stock pays a 
dividend or not, this section may or may not 
contain data. If there is data within the ﬁelds 
you can alter it by simply adding in the 
dividend amount and the corresponding ex. 
dividend date into the ﬁelds. The calculator 
will then price the options accordingly.
Volatility Level
This allows you to select a methodology with 
which to set the volatility level of the 
underlying. The possible selections include:
• The at-the-money volatility of the nearest 
term option
• The IV Index 30D (the implied volatility of 
the option with 30 days to expiry), IV index 
60D, or IV Index 90D
• The HV 10D (the 10-day historical volatility 
of the underlying), HV 60D, HV 90D, HV 
120D, HV 150D, or HV 180D 
Calculations
When all inputs are set on the left side, input 
two prices into the P1 and P2 boxes and press 
conﬁrm.
/uni2196
/uni2196
/uni2196
/uni2196
/uni2196
/uni2196
/uni2196
PAGE 3
Calculations Continued...
With this data, the Probability Calculator 
takes volatility in options on the underlying 
stock, index or ETF, and factors in the current 
risk-free interest rate, plus any dividends. This 
sums up the key factors of what the market's 
activity is "implying" about future prices on the 
underlying. The Probability Calculator helps 
gauge the statistical likelihood of hitting 
certain price highs and lows through that time 
period. 
The ﬁrst section uses inputs to generate the 
probability of the following scenarios: 
• Below Price 1
• Between Price 1 and Price 2
• Above Price 2
The next section expresses the statistical 
probability of touching the following:
• Price 1
• Price 2
• Both Price 1 and Price 2
• Either Price 1 or Price 2
• Neither Price 1 nor Price 2
/uni2196
/uni2196
/uni2196
The last section measures what the underlying 
prices look like for each standard deviation 
interval at the future date. In other words, the 
calculator will tell you that if a stock moves by 
X Standard Deviation, what that speciﬁc share 
price would be.
Disclaimer
The Probability Calculator and 20-minute delayed options quotes are provided by 
IVolatility, and NOT BY OCC. The tool is being provided for educational purposes only. OCC 
makes no representation as to the timeliness, accuracy or validity of the information and 
this informa-tion should not be construed as a recommendation to purchase or sell a 
security, or to provide investment advice. For more information or help, please contact us at 
options@theocc.com.