[MUSIC] You should now have a
better understanding of the basic components of
stock option contracts, as well as the common
language used by buyers and sellers
of these products. But now you may be asking, what do I have to gain or lose
by trading in this market? Well, before buying
or selling an option, you should note that as a rule, investors are required
among other actions, to read a copy of
the characteristics and risks of
standardized options, also known as the Options
Disclosure Document or ODD. This booklet which relates
solely to options issued by the Options Clearing
Corporation or OCC, provides insights into
the options market, including the risks faced
by both buyers and sellers, margin requirements, tax considerations,
and other topics. Among other functions and
services the OCC serves as a central counterparty and all listed options transactions. Meaning it provides a guarantee
that a trade will settle, should an option writer fail to satisfy their part
of the contract. You can find out more
about the OCC from their website as well as obtain the options
disclosure document. In general, the
advantages and risks of trading options mainly depend on your reason for using them. Are you looking more
generating additional income, for example, or hedging
an existing position? Are you bullish or bearish on the market and want to speculate on a stock price over a
fixed period of time? Well we'll dig more deeply into these subjects later
in the course. It's important to note that what you stand to gain or lose in the options market is largely tied to your
market strategy, as well as at what price the underlying security needs to be for you to break-even. That is neither gain nor
lose on your investment. Some of the main motives for options traders to enter the
market include the potential for enjoying games that
are relatively lower cost and buying the underlying security outright in
the stock market, as well as generating
additional income and protection against
existing exposure. Taking a closer look at the
four basic options contracts, we can see that as a buyer, your maximum gain is equivalent to the seller's maximum loss. In other words, while
the risk faced by a contract holder is limited to the premium paid
to the seller, the writer's risk
can be substantial. Recall that as an option seller, you may receive a
relatively small premium and exchange for acting as either buyer or seller to the holder of the
option contract. If the contract owner
approves correct and is locked in at a better
price to buy or sell, it may cost you more as an option seller in the
open market to fulfill your obligation to sell
the required shares for that delivery unless
you already hold them. If you're an unhedged
seller of a call option, you could feasibly
face unlimited losses. For that reason, options trading is not suitable
for all investors. There are naturally
several other advantages for traders to engage
in the options market, as well as numerous additional
risks that you may face. Given this, we urge
you to conduct your own due diligence depending on your
financial conditions, investment objectives,
or other requirements. As you progress
through the course, you'll also gain a
further understanding of the nuances that
underlie the upsides and pitfalls of options
trading for a host of popular trading strategies
and combinations. Come back and join us. [MUSIC]