From the watchlist
on the monitor tab, click the underlying
symbol you wish to create your covered
coal trade for. So long has your tabs or parts
of the same Windows group, the underlying will appear
in the order entry panel. To the right of the
order entry panel, select "Strategy Builder"
from the dropdown menu. You will see the option chain
window populate the screen. To the lower left, ensure that the Strategy
Builder button set to on. If you see off, just click the
button to activate. To create a covered call, first, the call option must be identified before the
stock leg is added. Strategy builder
displays option chains at the top of the page with Call options to the left and Put options to the rights of
the central strike column. You'll see the price
and daily change of the underlying to the upper
right of the Window. Above the call area, you'll see tabs for
different explorations. Click a tab or to locate
additional expiration dates, click on the "More" tab. Above the put area, you will see a dropdown
menu for strike prices. Access this menu to change or refine the number of strike
prices displayed on the page. Hovering the cursor above any bid price displays
a red background. This indicates that by
clicking on the field, it would create an order
to sell that option. Hovering above any asked price, displays a blue background indicating that by
clicking on this field, it would create an order
to buy the option. When a single strike
is clicked upon, the selected leg then populates the strategy
builder a panel beneath the ocean chains
window where it can be manipulated before the
order is submitted. Locate the desired option
strike you want to transact. Click on the relevant
price field, and specifically the bid price of the call option to move the leg down to the
Strategy Builder. To include the underlying stock, expand the plus symbol in the
order entry panel beneath. Locate Stock Leg and
click on the field. The underlying is added to the Strategy Builder display beneath the short
call option leg. Close the advanced display in the order entry panel below
by clicking the red X button. Now the two pieces of
the covered call are displayed and below
the bid-ask column, you'll see the price quote
for the combination. This is the price
of the Stock Leg minus the premium received
for the call option. Use the order entry panel at the bottom of the page
to create the order. Define the quantity
of options to trade. Generally, one options contract covers 100 shares of stock. By selecting a number of options, the software will compute the correct number of
underlying shares to transact. Choose the right order type
from the dropdown menu. If using a limit price, choose the value by clicking in the input field or simply
typing in the value. Select from the time
enforced dropdown, whether this is a
day or GTC order. Your order is ready to review. Click the "Submit" button to generate an order confirmation. When you have reviewed the
details, click "Transmit". The order is sent for execution
at the exchange and will appear in the activity panel
to the lower left of mosaic. To pause or interact
with an active order, click on it in they Activity panel and make the
relevant choice.