With any investment, comes risk. Investing in the futures
market is no exception. That's just the nature
of the investing world. Since futures are
derivatives, like options, they can derive their value from other underlying
financial instruments, such as equities, bonds, or currencies, each with
their own inherent risks. You should keep in
mind that risks come in different forms. For example, as an investor, you're typically face scenarios where you buy
something that loses value or something you
sell rises in value. Such risks may be due to an adverse move in
the market itself, or may have been
that you decided to enter the market at a poor time, which in finance is generally
referred to as market risk. Alternatively, you may
have purchased a stock that perform badly when
the broader market sold, which is typically a signal
of company-specific risk. You can probably
find a case each day of the week where
the market rises, but some stocks fall. Generally investors invest in stocks because they believe that the value of company's tends
to increase over time. As good economic policy creates an increasingly
improving labor market, you could say that
the futures market differs in this respect as buyers and sellers tend to have more balanced view due
to competing bullish, bearish information
on most commodities. However the futures markets
by their very nature, perform another very important
role when it comes to mitigating risk as
the futures exchange, where standardized futures
contracts are traded, bears the role of
central counter-party to all transactions. Futures trading, like any other typical
financial transaction, generally involves two parties, a willing buyer and
a willing seller. The role of a
marketplace is to bring counter-parties together and
engage in price discovery. This process between a bank and its customer is often referred to as over the counter
or OTC trading. However, the relationship
among buyers and sellers in the market place raises the question of
counter-party risk, since neither party can guarantee that the other will
not fail on the trade. The purpose of an
exchange facility or transactional model is to remove counter-party risk
by creating and transferring risk to the
single exchange entity, backed by the diverse financial
standing of its members. Sure, there are buyers and
sellers to all transactions, but the exchange
undertakes to back all futures contracts regardless of the financial health
of anyone trading on it. This alleviate settlement risk, meaning participants in the
market don't need to check the quality or capitalization of the person or company
they're trading with. This is all done by the exchange. To further help safeguard
the futures market, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, or CFTC, it was
established by Congress in the mid 1970s to serve
as a federal regulator. This capacity, the CFTC acts
to ensure the integrity of futures market pricing with aims to prevent abusive
trading practices, fraud, as well as the
regulation of brokers that participate in futures
trading activities. Now that we've touched
on and explored different types of risks
in the financial markets, we'll next turn our attention to futures prices with a focus on the difference between
spot and forward prices. We'll look forward to
you joining us then.