The concept of a forward
market is based on participants facilitating
the purchase and sale of products that
will not be produced or won't be available until some specific time in the future. In general, whether
you're a speculator willing to assume risk in
order to make a profit, or you're an investor
who's adopting a hedging strategy to
protect a position, futures allow you to lock
into prevailing prices. The forward or future price
must take into account multiple factors that can
influence the price of the product and the structure
of the end product, whether physical or
purely financial, must be clearly specified
in the contract. Over many decades,
exchange traded futures contracts have grown into popular investment vehicle. Any futures market is based
on some underlying product, often a physical commodity and offer producers and
end users the ability to hedge against
adverse price movements in the value of the end product. Some other products available on global futures markets include metals such as gold and silver. Energy-related products such as crude oil and natural gas. Grains such as corn, soy beans, and rice. Soft commodities such as coffee, cocoa, sugar, and frozen
concentrated orange juice, as well as financial products,
including interest rates, currencies, and equity indices, among several others in
each of these category. Sellers of these
products may wish to lock into as higher prices as possible to make sure that at least they make
a profit at the minimum, or at worst, that they cover
the cost of production. While end users may wish to hedge against rising prices
in order to ensure a reasonable price
for any commodity and control as best they
can the cost they face. The more producers,
buyers and sellers and hedgers that interact
in any futures market, the more speculators
are drawn in. Creating additional liquidity and generally improving
market conditions. In this module we'll
introduce you to some of the risks faced by investors
in the futures market. How certain of those
risks are mitigated, as well as the difference between spot and forward prices, and contango and backwardation. We'll also provide you
with other insights about the mechanics
of trading futures, including the roles of
commoditized contracts, as well as margin requirements. Come back and join us.