From the watch list
on the Monitor tab, click the underlying
symbol you wish to create your options
strangled tried for. As long as your tabs are part
of the same Windows group, the underlying will appear
in the order entry panel. To the right of the
order entry panel, select a strategy builder
from the dropdown menu. To the lower left
of the strategy, Build a window, ensure
the on button is active. If not, just click
it to activate. Above you will see the
option chain window populate with calls to the left and put to the right of the strike column in the
middle of the display. Use the tabs above the call area to locate different
expiration dates. Above the put display, use the strikes dropdown to fine tune the contracts
displayed on screen. You will see the price
and daily change of the underlying to the upper
right of the window. Strategy builder has several predefined
option combinations available from the
strategy dropdown menu to the lower right of the screen. Reveal the list by clicking
on the dropdown menu. Select Strangle from the list, and notice the icon shown
in the lower part of the display instructing you to click on a leg to
display the strangle. Notice that when the cursor is placed above the bid
price of a call, the software
automatically highlights the pertinent element for
the rest of the combination. For a short strangle, TWS knows that sending
a call requires the sale of a lower strike
put at the same expiration. Hence, both legs display in red. Move the cursor above the
Ask Price on a call and see the related leg on the put side also moves
to the ask price. Locate the desired
call strike you want to build your
short strangled for. Scroll the mouse
wheel up and you will see the call leg remain static, but the put leg widen
to a lower strike. Scroll the mouse wheel down to narrow the legs and
the combination. When you have correctly
defined both legs, click on the bid price
for the call side to move both call and put legs down
to the strategy builder. Note that clicking
on the ask price would have generated
the long strangle. With both legs of the
short strangling position below the bid ask column, you will see the price
quote for the combination. This is the combined
price of both legs and in the case of the short
strangle represents a credit. Use the order entry panel at the bottom of the page
to create your order. Define the quantity of strangle
combinations to trade, choose the right order type
from the dropdown menu. If using a limit price, choose the value by clicking in the input field or simply
typing in the value. Select from the time
enforced dropdown, whether this is a day or
good till canceled order. Your order is ready to review. Click the "Submit" button to generate an order confirmation. When you have reviewed the
details, click "Transmit". The order is sent
for execution at the exchange and will appear in the activity panel to
the lower left of mosaic. To pause or interact
with an active order, click on it in the activity panel and make the relevant choice.