From a watch list
on the monitor tab, click the underlying
symbol you wish to create your options trade for. So long as your tabs are part
of the same Windows group, the underlying will appear
in the order entry panel. To the right of the
order entry panel, select option chain from
the drop-down menu. The option chain display
shows call options to the left and put options to the right of the
central strike column. You will see the price
and daily change of the underlying to the
upper right of the window. Above the col area, you will see tabs for
different expirations. Click a tab or to locate
additional expiration dates, click on the ''More'' tab. Above the port area, you will see a dropdown
menu for strike prices. Access this menu to change or refine the number of strike
prices displayed on the page. Hovering the cursor above any bid price displays
a red background. This indicates that by
clicking on the field, it would create an order
to sell that option. Hovering above any asked price, displays a blue background indicating that by
clicking on this field, it would create an
audit to buy an option. Clicking a single strike will close the option chain window and populates the order entry panel with the chosen option leg. Locate the desired option
strike you want to transact. Click on the relevant
price field, which will close the
option chain display. Use the order entry panel to define the quantity
of options to trade. Choose the right order type
from the drop down menu. If using a limit price, choose the value by clicking in the input field or simply
typing in the value. Select from the time
enforced drop down, whether this is a
day or GTC order. Your order is ready to review. Click the ''Submit'' button to generate an
order confirmation. When you have reviewed the
details, click ''transmit''. The order is sent for execution at the exchange
and will appear in the activity panel to the
lower left of mosaic. To pause or interact
with an act of order, click on it in the activity panel and make the relevant choice.