[MUSIC] From a Watchlist in the monitor tab, click the underlying symbol you wish to
create your option straddle trade for. So long as your tabs are part
of the same windows group, the underlying will appear
in the order entry panel. To the right of the order entry panel, select Strategy Builder
from the drop-down menu. To the lower left of the Strategy Builder
window, ensure the on button is active. If not, just click it to activate. Above, you will see the option chain
window populate, with calls to the left and puts to the right of the straight
column in the middle of the display. Use the tabs above the call area to
locate different expiration dates. Above the put display, use the strikes drop-down to fine-tune
the contracts displayed on screen. You will see the price and the daily change of the underlying to
the upper right corner of the window. Strategy Builder has several predefined
option combinations available from the strategy drop-down menu to
the lower right of the screen. Select Straddle from the list and
notice the icon shown in the lower part of the display, instructing you to click
on a leg to display the Straddle. Notice that when the cursor is placed
above the bid price of a call, the software automatically
highlights the pertinent element for the rest of the combination. For a short straddle, TWS knows that
selling a call requires the sale of a put at the same strike and expiration. Hence, both legs display in red. Move the cursor above
the ask price on a call and see the related leg on the put
side also moves to the ask price. Locate the design strike you want to
build your short straddle for and click on the bid price of the call. Note that a straddle combines the same
strike and same expiration column to put. Both call and put legs move
down to the Strategy Builder. Note that clicking on the ask price
would have generated the long straddle. With both legs of the short
straddle in position. Below the bid/ask column, you will see
the price quote for the combination. This is the combined price of both legs,
and in the case of the short straddle, represents a credit. Use the Order Entry panel at the bottom
of the page to create the order. Define the quantity of straddle
combinations to trade. Choose the right order type
from the drop-down menu. If using a limit price, choose the value
by clicking in the input field or simply typing in the value. Select from the time in force
drop-down whether this is a day or a good-til-canceled order. Your order is ready to review. Click the submit button to
generate an order confirmation. When you have reviewed the details,
click transmit. The order is sent for
execution at the exchange and will appear in the activity panel
to the lower left of mosaic. To pause or interact with an active order, click on it in the activity panel and
make the relevant choice. [MUSIC]